Q1. what is a software process model?

ans: A software process model is a structured sets of activities or a mechanism used to to build a system by breakig the process into distinct phases. The process makes it possible for developers to keep track of the progress of the project. It aslo helps the projecet manager plan their process, make cost estimates,identify challenges and communicate with teams and customers.

Q2. Compare and contrast the waterfall and the agile software process model?

Ans: waterfall and agile software process model have similarities and deffrences. The similarites are ;
They both incorprate the common aspects of the lifecycle phases which inludes; design and implementation, requirment specification, validation and evolution.
With the differences, waterfall it si difficult to makes changes when the project is underway, but the agile changes can be done to suit customer demand at anytime. waterfall comes with lot if documentation making the process slow but agile comes with less documentation making it fast. waterfall is mostly prefare by large companies while agile is mostly prefare by small companies like . waterfall is delivers an end product that maches initial specifications while agile delivers continuously working software to clients.
The key difference between the two is that waterfall breaks down software process into distinct phases that flows into each other while agile advocate iterative development cycle in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in paralle.
Benefits of agile;
i. less prone to errors, because it does entirly depend on initial requirments.
ii. it is more flexible since changes can be done at any time in the process.
iii. it has agreater chance of predicting the end product.
iv. it encourages more customer involement.
Draw backs of agile:
i. more time and committment is required.
ii. limited documentation and often falls to the back burner.
iii. fragment output rather cohesive unit is mostly the results since teams work on each components in different cycles.
iv. It is difficult measuring progress since it delivers in increments.
Benfits of waterfall:
i. before the next phase of development, each phase must be completed.
ii. suited for smaller projects where requirements are well defined.
iii. elaborate documentation is done at every phase of the software's development cycle.
iv. project is completely dependent on project team with minimum client intervention .
drawbacks of waterfall:
i. Errors can be fixed only during the phase.
ii. it is not desirable for complex projects where requirements keeps changing.
iii. testing periods comes quite late in the development process.
iv. documentation occupies lots of time of the developersa and testers.

Q3. What is rational unified process?

